#summary Things which need doing / list of wishes

  * ~~[http://mpris.org/ MPRIS]-compliant DBUS player track-info retrival~~
  * ~~Sensible WMP support~~
  * ~~XMPP tune status support~~
  * ~~Other outstanding patches~~
  * ~~issues with track info containing hyphens? winamp related?~~
  * ~~XMMS2 support needs work: should use dlopen/dlsym to avoid depending on presence of library (detected at compile time at the moment)~~
  * ~~Last.fm feed support needs work: breaks player autodetection at the momeent, should look at timestamp and infer off it is more than 5 minutes (configurable?) in the past; look at what [http://code.google.com/p/pidgin-lastfm/ pidgin-lastfm] does?~~
  * Generate reasonable linux binary packages (hopefully without needing a system with each kind of linux distrubution on)
  * When regex matching fails, log something useful
  * Are we leaking memory every time we pcre_compile? Check for leaks generally...
  * Use purple_plugin_pref() API rather than GTK directly?
  * asynchronous track info retrieval: dbus calls were synchronous, now synchronous with a timeout; and other retrieval follows a similar pattern.  This is not ideal as we are blocking a thread critical to pidgin's responsiveness while we wait. Properly async would be better?  How would elapsed track time and progres bar formatting elements work when we don't poll? 
  * Player auto-detection gets complex in async case: 2 passes, first to launch all the data requests, the second to collect them all? (fold remaining synchronous retrieval into the collect phase?); evaluate if more than one player has returned info and break ties using the list of players we use sequentially at the moment (so no change in apparent behaviour); 
  * Player autodetection should perhaps retry the player it found last time first before trying all the other alternatives?
  * Filter isn't applied to tune status